# Planning-for-Drunks-Model
Agent Based Model for Assignment 2 Leeds 5995 

This repository contains python code for an agent-based model of drunk people reaching home after leaving the pub. There is a drunk.plan raster file which must be downloaded to execute the code. There is also a density.txt file which has been created from the code. There are two python files; the drunkagents.py file contains code for the Agents Class, defining the characteristics and attributes of the drunks (agents) in the model. The planning_for_drunks_model.py file contains code necessary to execute the model, where the drunkagents class is imported in and used alongside a raster file of the town plan, where the drunk agents are placed within. 

The drunkagents class contains the characteristics of the drunk people (agents) which can then be initialised when imported into the model (planning_for_drunks_model.py). The main aim of this class is to set up agents who have a house number from 10-250, to give them a starting location at the pub, and to make them move randomly until they reach their house, of which the route is recorded as density. This class uses two libraries; random (for randomly moving the agents) and itertools. Itertools was imported as a solution to assigning each agent a house number from 0, 250, all of which must be multiples of 10. 

The drunkagents class has three functions. Firstly, a constructor function (__init__) allows the initialisation of the attributes of the class, which are town, drunks, pubx, puby, density. Another function is the ‘move’ function, which uses the random library to move the agents up, down, left, or right within the boundaries of the town, depending on the outcome of the random number. The self.visited attribute records where the agent has been. The last function, steps, records the density of the agents passing through the cells. 
The planning_for_drunks_model first imports the drunkagents class. It also imports matplotlib.pyplot, to plot the final model, and csv library to read in the town_plan raster file, and to write out the density map as a txt file. The num_of_agents is given an integer value of 25 and the location of pubx, puby is set to 0. Variables density, town, drunks, are initially set up as empty lists. Using the csv.reader (from the csv library), the drunk.plan.txt file is appended to the town list, with each row being filled with values from the file. The drunk.plan.txt file is read in a second time, appended to the density list, filling each row with values of 0 – this is what will be used to record the route of agents passing through the cells. A for loop is set up to find the location of the pub, which is denoted by 1s in the town list. The agents are appended to the drunks list.  An integer variable, total, is set up with a value of 0, which will record the total number of drunks who have made it home. A for loop is set up to move the agents and record their steps, utilising the functions in the drunkagents class. If the drunks x and y values are the same as the values of their house, one is added to the total. Once the total reaches the number of drunks (25), a message prints to confirm all of the drunks have made it home safe. Matplotlib.pyplot is used to plot this density map and the csv.writer function (from the csv library) is used to export the density recording as a txt file. 
